feat: add Dynatrace datasource (#2989)
kubeshop/tracetest: docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-dynatrace.md

> # Running Tracetest With Datadog

Reviewer: I believe the references to Datadog need to be changed to Dynatrace

:::note

> [Check out the source code on GitHub here.](https://github.com/kubeshop/tracetest/tree/main/examples/tracetest-datadog)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Check out the source code on GitHub here.](https://github.com/kubeshop/tracetest/tree/main/examples/tracetest-dynatrace)
```

:::

[Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/) is a testing tool based on [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) that allows you to test your distributed application. It allows you to use data from distributed traces generated by OpenTelemetry to validate and assert if your application has the desired behavior defined by your test definitions.

> [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/) is an observability solution for cloud-scale applications, providing solutions to monitor databases, servers, tools and services. It provides integrated distributed tracing, logs and metrics solutions and supports OpenTelemetry standards.

Reviewer 2: Here we can change to a specific description for Dynatrace, maybe something like this? (partially inspired by this [Wikipedia description](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynatrace))

```suggestion
[Dynatrace](https://www.dynatrace.com/) is an observability solution used to monitor and optimize application performance, software development and security practices, IT infrastructure, and user experience. It provides integrated distributed tracing, logs, and metrics solutions and supports OpenTelemetry standards.
```

## OpenTelemetry Demo `v1.3.0` with Datadog, OpenTelemetry and Tracetest

> This is a simple sample app on how to configure the [OpenTelemetry Demo `v1.3.0`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo) to use [Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/) for enhancing your E2E and integration tests with trace-based testing and [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/) as a trace data store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a simple sample app on how to configure the [OpenTelemetry Demo `v1.3.0`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo) to use [Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/) for enhancing your E2E and integration tests with trace-based testing and [Dynatrace](https://www.dynatrace.com/) as a trace data store.
```

## Prerequisites

> You will need [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed on your machine to run this sample app! Additionally, you will need a Datadog account and an API. Sign up to Datadog on their [homepage](https://www.datadoghq.com/) by clicking on `Get Started Free`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed on your machine to run this sample app! Additionally, you will need a Datadog account and an API Key. Sign up for Dynatrace on their [homepage](https://www.dynatrace.com/) by clicking on `Free trial`.
```

Reviewer: @danielbdias is going to review this today. If we can get it knocked out, we may be able to slide it into the RC on Monday and then release on Tuesday!

```yaml
# tracetest-config.yaml

---
postgres:
  host: postgres
  user: postgres
  password: postgres
  port: 5432
  dbname: postgres
  params: sslmode=disable

telemetry:
  exporters:
    collector:
      serviceName: tracetest
      sampling: 100
      exporter:
        type: collector
        collector:
          endpoint: otel-collector:4317

server:
  telemetry:
    exporter: collector
    applicationExporter: collector
```

The `tracetest-provision.yaml` file contains the setup of the demo APIs that Tracetest can use as an example for tests, the polling profiles that say how Tracetest should fetch traces from the data store and the configuration for the data store, in our case, Datadog.

```yaml
---
type: Demo
spec:
  name: "OpenTelemetry Shop"
  enabled: true
  type: otelstore
  opentelemetryStore:
    frontendEndpoint: http://frontend:8084
    productCatalogEndpoint: productcatalogservice:3550
    cartEndpoint: cartservice:7070
    checkoutEndpoint: checkoutservice:5050

---
type: PollingProfile
spec:
  name: Default
  strategy: periodic
  default: true
  periodic:
    retryDelay: 5s
    timeout: 180s

---
type: DataStore
spec:
  name: datadog
  type: datadog

```

> **Sending Traces to Tracetest and Datadog**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Sending Traces to Tracetest and Dynatrace**
```

The `collector.config.yaml` explains that. It receives traces via either `grpc` or `http`. Then, exports them to Tracetest's OTLP endpoint `tracetest:4317` in one pipeline, and to Datadog in another.

Make sure to add your Datadog API Key to the `datadog` exporter.

```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      http:
      grpc:

processors:
  batch: # this configuration is needed to guarantee that the data is sent correctly to Datadog
    send_batch_max_size: 100
    send_batch_size: 10
    timeout: 10s

exporters:
  # OTLP for Tracetest
  otlp/tracetest:
    endpoint: tracetest:4317
    # Send traces to Tracetest.
    # Read more in docs here: https://docs.tracetest.io/configuration/connecting-to-data-stores/opentelemetry-collector
    tls:
      insecure: true
  # Datadog exporter
  datadog:
    api:
      site: datadoghq.com
      key: ${DATADOG_API_KEY} # Add here you API key for Datadog
    # One example on how to set up a collector configuration for Datadog can be seen here:

>     # https://docs.datadoghq.com/opentelemetry/otel_collector_datadog_exporter/?tab=onahost

Reviewer 2: Here we need to change to Dynatrace-specific configurations, probably similar to the setup here: `examples/tracetest-dynatrace/tracetest/collector.config.yaml`
